---
description: >-
  BRC20 is a protocol/standard indirectly linked to Bitcoin: they are like two
  parallel lines. If these tokens or a transaction is compromised.
---

# DMT Spirit

***

**BRC20** is a protocol/standard indirectly linked to Bitcoin: they are like two parallel lines. If these tokens or a transaction is compromised, the **Bitcoin** protocol is unaffected (unlike the ERC20s on Ethereum). ERC20 respect the Ethereum consensus mechanism, for BRC20 it doesn't work like that. Bitcoin's protocol doesn't "know" what's happening on the BRC20 standard, it sees the transfer as a normal transaction. Paradoxically, the transaction could be accepted on the Bitcoin blockchain and rejected on the BRC20 (perhaps because it does not comply with the BRC20 standards). If someone tries to send 30 tokens but only has 10, Bitcoin would see this as a normal transaction. However it would be considered invalid by the BRC20 standard (if I have 10 token I cannot send 30!).

\
HOW THE BRC20 WORKS\
Basically we have 3 phases for the creation of a BRC20 token:\
1\) Deploy (creation of BRC20 token)\
2\) Mint (generation of the amount of tokens)\
3\) Transfer (allows transfer from a sender to the recipient)

Deployment is an inscription, i.e. the addition of metadata to a transaction (witness field). The saved data is in the ".JSON" format so it is text. The "skeleton" of the deployment inscription will be:

\-P (protocol): BRC20\
\-OP (operation): deploy\
\-Tick (ticker/token identifier): orders\
\-Max (supply): xxxxx\
\-Lim (mint limit for each inbscription): xx\
\-Dec (decimal): 18

This text will be written in the inbscription. Also in the mint function text will be inserted in the inscription and it will be seen as a normal transaction by the Bitcoin protocol (here the "AMT" function is present, i.e. the amount to be minted). When the mint function is confirmed by the network, the creator of the token is as if it were generating a transaction to its own address (it is autogenerated). The transfer foresees the creation of another inscription always with text where the "OP" operation foresees the transfer function and the "AMT" the quantity to be sent. Subsequently a normal transaction is performed on the Bitcoin network which transfers the inscription created from address A to address B. The Bitcoin protocol sees normal transactions but does not read the data: it does not see the deploy nor the mint. He only sees a transfer of Satoshi from x to y (and not the transfer Satoshi+Inscription). Complete example:

{% code title="brc-20-deploy" overflow="wrap" lineNumbers="true" %}
```json
```
{% endcode %}

## Ethscription Style

Inscriptions have two fixed rules:

* The content of the inscription must be a valid DataURI starting with "data:"
* For inscriptions with identical content, the first one is considered a valid inscription.

The following content is for deploying an inscription for a token named "gwei".

* "p" represents the protocol, and here the ERC-20 protocol is used.
* "op" indicates that the current operation for this inscription is deployment.
* "tick" represents the current token name to be deployed.
* "max" represents the maximum issuance.
* "lim" represents the maximum amount that can be mined per mining operation.

```
{"p":"erc-20","op":"deploy","tick":"gwei","max":"21000000","lim":"1000"}
```

The following content is for minting 1000 tokens of "eths".&#x20;

this time, the "op" content has changed from "deploy" to "mint." Please note that the ID must be unique, and if there is a duplicate, the information from the first one will be used.

```
data:,{"p":"erc-20","op":"mint","tick":"eths","id":"1","amt":"1000"}
```

I believe the above content is quite straightforward. If you are not familiar with it, that's okay. Our inscription tool will assist you in creating them.

If you want to learn more about inscription rules, you can visit the following links for detailed information:&#x20;

ethscriptions: [https://docs.ethscriptions.com/overview/introducing-ethscriptions](https://docs.ethscriptions.com/overview/introducing-ethscriptions) etchMarket: [https://docs.etch.market/indexer/index-rules](https://docs.etch.market/indexer/index-rules)



